+++
title = "SASP 2019"
subtitle = ""

date = 2019-04-30T00:00:00
lastmod = 2019-04-30T00:00:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Maddie North"]

tags = ["Conference"]
summary = ""

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this post with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
# projects = []

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your project's folder. 
[image]
# Caption (optional)
caption = "Image credit: [**Unsplash**](https://unsplash.com/photos/CpkOjOcXdUY)"

# Focal point (optional)
# Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
focal_point = ""

# Show image only in page previews?
preview_only = false

+++

SASP 2019 started off with a road trip to Sydney with fellow lab members Eddie, and Anna. I had all plans to go to the conference for all three days, alas our best laid plans often fall by the wayside. I ended up only physically being at the venue for about five hours and that was the second day when I was presenting and watching some other people in the lab presenting. 

I want to give a shout out to twitter here. Because even though I wasn’t there two out of three days, it still felt like it from the sheer amounts of tweets coming out of presentations. The hashtag for the conference in case you are wondering and are interested in any of the tweets is #SASPconf. There are hundreds of tweets the work that everyone was doing in there and I think also this is a good way to be able to disseminateour research in a way that is a bit more lay person friendly. I think if used well, academic twitter has the power to do some good for science communication. But maybe that is a post for another day. 

I did attend on the Friday and saw some interesting presentations on stigma. Then it was time to present as a part of a vegan symposium. I am a first year HDR student and I somehow let my supervisors encourage me to organise this symposium. I’m super glad I did it, because I think it is underestimated the isolating feeling of doing research that not only is it only emerging in the literature in the last ten or so years, but it is also not a thing that happens in the uni that I go to. A couple of people are looking at it, but it isn’t their primary focus, and even within the lab it is somewhat isolating to be the only one who is primarily focusing on it too. 

It was so nice to be able to have conversations with people in the area that are genuinely interested in the topic and were willing to agree to participate. I often rattle on at my friends and family about the things I research but I am sure they don’t actually care all that much about it. It was nice being surrounded by people who actually cared about the area and who were interested in the research that I was doing. There was also a good discussion afterwards as well and this has somewhat reinvigorated my interest in the area, which is helpful when you have a confirmation coming up soon. 

This is why I enjoy conferences the most and why I have been to so many in such a short period of time. The people you meet along the way in the area. You begin to feel like you’re not the only person in the world who is researching this specific thing, and this is very important in the academic environment. Through meeting these people who actually care about whatyou’re doing and showing a genuine interest in it helps to create networksbut also has the potential to reinspire you. 

The Saturday was the last day, and once again twitter provided me with the goods for feeling like I was actually in attendance. A shout out to a couple of last years’ fourth years, Raissa and Andy, who presented at theirhonours research at their first ever conference. You should both be very proud that you got up and presented, it’s not easy and the lab is proud of you.

The unfortunate thing about driving somewhere is that you have to drive back. So Eddie, Anna, and I piled back into the car and made the long trip back to Melbourne. We were armed with vegan cinnamon scrolls and podcasts, but even that didn’t make the ride seem any shorter. Although I didn’t attend all three days, I still had a good time at my very first SASP conference. Which I think goes to show that we don’t need to be doing all the things at conferences for them to be a worthwhile experience. See you all in Auckland for SASP2020.
